CALLING ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN modeling and simulation of novel communication systems AT FRAUNHOFER ESK in MUNICH. MAKE THE MOST OF YOUR TALENTS BY JOINING OUR COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES AND ARCHITECTURES TEAM. POSTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR Internship: Evaluation of channel models for V2X communication beyond 5G Terahertz band communication is envisioned to fulfil the bandwidth and spectrum demands beyond 5G. The THz band spans between 0.1 and 10 THz and remains relatively unexplored. Fraunhofer ESK studies the use of THz band to provide ultra-fast and reliable communication for adaptive Vehicle-To-X (V2X) systems and applications. As part of this study, an accurate model of the THz channel is required to be integrated in our ns-3 simulation tool. In your work as intern, you will study and use existing implementations of millimeter-wave (mmWave) channels to determine if they are accurate enough to reproduce THz band characteristics in V2X scenarios. The outcomes of your work may lead to a master thesis topic and publication of results in an esteemed peer-review conference. What we expect from you
Excellent programming skills in C++ Familiarity with ns-3 is a plus. Basic understanding of wireless communication systems and signal processing High motivation and the ability to work independently.
Especially suitable for students with the field of study in Electrical Engineering / Computer Science / Communications Engineering. What you can expect from us
Participation in a dynamic team with innovative task areas Practical approach to your studies The duration of employment and working time is set by arrangement.
Remuneration according to the federal government guidelines for intern salaries. In case of identical qualifications, preference will be given to severely disabled candidates. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft is committed to providing equal career opportunities for men and women. Fraunhofer ESK focuses on applied research in the field of information and communication technologies with an emphasis on reliable communication systems. Backed by expertise in the areas of communication technologies & architectures and application architecture design & validation, the institute is active in the connected mobility, industrial communication, smart grid communication and telecommunication industries. If we could arise your interest, please apply exclusively through the career page on our website with all the necessary documents (cover letter, curriculum vitae, certificates).