HARDWARE-IN-THE-LOOP IS A FAMILIAR TERM to you? YOU WANT TO COMBINE THEORY AND PRACTICE DURING YOUR STUDIES? THEN WE HAVE AN EXCITING NEW OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU in the division »wind Turbine and system technology« AT OUR MAIN SITE IN BREMERHAVEN for AN: Internship with Possibility to Complete a Master Thesis: Development of Hardware-in-the-Loop Control Algorithms with Inertia Emulation Functionality in Presence of Time-Delayed Environment The Fraunhofer Institute for Wind Energy Systems IWES covers applied research and development for the complete wind power value chain. Its particular strength lies in the combination of a worldwide unique test infrastructure with extensive expertise in reliability and validation. More than 250 employees and students at the sites in Bremerhaven, Bremen, Hamburg, Hanover and Oldenburg work day in, day out to ensure the further development and success of the institute. Become part of our team and gain valuable experience for your future career. Seize your opportunity and apply now! What you offer
You are a student (f/m) in Mechanical, Control, Automation or Mechatronics Engineering Solid understanding of system modeling as well as control logics implementation and tuning Good knowledge of basic and advanced control theories and a firm handling of MATLAB/Simulink as well as TwinCAT You are interested in applied research topics in control logic implementation for test benches Basic programming skills and a firm handling with Windows as well as Linux machines are required You are creative, work in an independent and highly motivated manner an possess self-organizational skills You can demonstrate your communication skills in both German and English.
You would like to contribute your own ideas and shape the future of wind energy as part of a success-oriented team? Welcome to the Fraunhofer IWES! Your duties To further simplify nacelle testing, we currently develop a new test rig for the minimal drive train system, comprised of just the fast-running generator and power electronics hardware. You are wondering what your tasks look like? You will join the team of control and system engineering, contributing to the research on drive train control field. Currently, control department carries on extensive research to implement environments to test wind energy converter minimal systems. In general, test bench control design takes advantage of the Hardware-in-the-loop (HiL) framework. The physical minimal drive train is coupled with a mathematical model of all additional components, which are not present on the test rig, but are required on a real wind turbine. This mainly includes the inertia of mechanical components. The inertia emulation task aims to fulfill two sub-targets. The first sub-target is to damp the oscillations related to the natural frequencies of the physical system. The second sub-target is to simulate the dynamics related to the in-field operations of the wind energy converter. Generally, communications between physical system and mathematical virtual model involve delays, related to computational effort and digital bus. Therefore, taking into account this feature, you should perform investigations related to the implementation of high performance HiL control algorithms. This project focuses on the development of control algorithms robust against time delays. First project phase involves deep investigations identifying sources and causes of fixed and variable time delays. Second project phase aims to provide output solutions addressing the problem of a time-delayed process. For validation purpose and to gain more knowledge about this issue, a small-scaled electro-mechanical test bench shall be used to perform real-time tests and confirmations of novel ideas. We expect you to bring in your own ideas and your knowledge about advanced control algorithms and predictors. Furthermore, non-standard solutions can be implemented and tested in this environment. This research path aims to produce a comparison. Ideally, the comparison should encompass both theoretical and empirical points of view, demonstrating alternative solutions to handle time delays within a drive-train test bench. Scope and path of this work can be adapted according to individual skills and thesis requirements. Are you curious and eager to find out more about our unique on-site testing and measuring infrastructure? Take 90 seconds and check out the following link: What we offer You want to gain valuable experience for your professional future with a variety of tasks and get a look behind the scenes of wind energy? Then experience at IWES a community in which working is fun and everyone has a common goal in mind. Become part of new developments that participate in the future of wind energy. We provide comprehensive support by our Research Associates and Senior Scientists and make you fit for your professional practice. Furthermore, you will have the possibility to work independently on an up-to-date and complex research topic. With us, you can use your talents, develop yourself and achieve innovative results with passion. Remuneration according to the federal government guidelines for intern salaries. The working time consists of 39 hours per week. The position is initially limited for 3 months. In case of identical qualifications, preference will be given to severely disabled candidates. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft is committed to providing equal career opportunities for men and women. Fraunhofer is Europe's largest application-oriented research organization. Our research efforts are geared entirely to people's needs: health, security, communication, energy and the environment. As a result, the work undertaken by our researchers and developers has a significant impact on people's lives. We are creative. We shape technology. We design products. We improve methods and techniques. We open up new vistas. If you have any further questions, please contact: Gabriele Curioni Phone: +49 (0) 471 / 14290-470 We kindly ask you to apply online by clicking on the »Apply« button. Please note that we observe the provisions of the valid General Data Protection Regulation when processing applications.