SIMULATION AND OPTIMIZATION OF PRODUCTION PROCESSES IS YOUR TOPIC? THE DEPARTMENT »OPTIMIZATION« AT FRAUNHOFER INSTITUTE FOR INDUSTRIAL MATHEMATICS (ITWM) IS OFFERING A DIVERSIFIED EMPLOYMENT AS PhD Student for »Hybrid Model Approaches for Simulation and Optimization of Production Processes« The optimization department of the Fraunhofer ITWM develops individual solutions for planning and decision support for problems in logistics, engineering / natural sciences and life sciences in close collaboration with researchers and industrial customers. There, a close integration of modeling, simulation, optimization and decision support is realized. We are looking for a PhD student in mathematics for the topic »Hybrid Model Approaches for Simulation and Optimization of Production Processes«. In detail, the following tasks shall be addressed within the framework of the PhD project:
combination of machine learning methods with prior knowledge on all aspects of the production process to form a complete hybrid model process study of the modular combinability of different model parts of the production process from prior knowledge and new data evaluation of the model quality and adjustment of the optimization approach regarding the hybrid model to optimize the process
What we expect from you
superior university degree in (applied) mathematics, physics or informatics
advanced programming knowledge (Matlab and/or C/C++/C#)
independent and goal-oriented working
willingness to familiarize oneself with new issues as well as to implement models and concepts in algorithms and software
willingness to present the results in German and English at national and international conferences
What you can expect from us
an exciting PhD topic in applied research
lively exchange with experts from the relevant areas
a flexible, innovative and creative environment
time to learn, research and develop your personality
The funding is provided via a full-time doctoral scholarship in accordance with the increased DFG rates. The scholarship is limited to three years. In case of identical qualifications, preference will be given to severely disabled candidates. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft is committed to providing equal career opportunities for men and women. Fraunhofer is Europe's largest application-oriented research organization. Our research efforts are geared entirely to people's needs: health, security, communication, energy and the environment. As a result, the work undertaken by our researchers and developers has a significant impact on people's lives. We are creative. We shape technology. We design products. We improve methods and techniques. We open up new vistas. The Fraunhofer ITWM shows an extraordinary commitment to a family-friendly work environment for its employees: flexible working and parental leave times, daycare, the possibility of a home office, organization of health days and sports activities as well as a parent-child office make the Fraunhofer ITWM in Kaiserslautern an attractive employer.